---
layout: post
title: Fennel Protocol - Mutable Identity
author: Sean Batzel, Mateusz Plaza, Isaac Adams, Ed Hertzog, Patrick Gryczka
---
Fennel Protocol is an under-development blockchain protocol, implemented with the Substrate framework, that provides reputation-based verifications through crowd-sourced attestations on a web of trust.

Interactions within Fennel are centered around an identity which is created and owned by a user’s account. Therefore, every new user begins their journey on the Fennel Protocol by creating an identity. Once an identity is created, the user will be given a unique identifier pointing to it, which can be used in a variety of ways. Whether to add traits, send a signal, or create a statement of trust with another identity, the unique identifier, which points to a specific identity owned by an account, is central to every action on the protocol. Furthermore, users can create multiple identities. For instance, one identity can be created for the purpose of interacting within a business network while another might be created for interacting with gaming friends. This particular user sees the value in keeping their interactions with these two networks as separate from one another, and this can be achieved through the creation of separate Fennel identities.

As mentioned, each time an identity is created, it is assigned a unique identifier. Fennel identity creation works similarly to the process of minting NFTs. The non-fungible aspect is made possible by the unique identifier associated with every NFT that is minted. Typically, there is an integer which, once it is assigned to a newly minted NFT, is incremented by one, to be used for the next NFT waiting to be minted. In the same way, Fennel keeps track of an integer on-chain, and each time it is used, it is incremented by one to be used as the unique identifier for the next identity. However, it should be strongly noted that Fennel identities differ from NFTs on two main points. First, and critically to the function of the protocol, Fennel identities are not transferable. Each account strictly owns the identities it creates, and this can never be transferred to another account. Secondly, information, associations, and claims can be connected with Fennel identities as “traits”. In other words, Fennel identities can be thought of as similar to mutable NFTs.

Aside from the unique identifier, how can the user differentiate their hypothetical business identity from the gaming identity in a meaningful way? This is where Fennel traits come into play. Any key/value pair of strings can be added to identities. For instance, if I wanted to add a “name” to each of my identities, I’d pass in “name” as the key and “business” as the value for the business identity, and “gaming” as the value for the gaming identity. Of course, more meaningful traits can be added for greater utility. Say, for instance, there are two individuals starting a company. The business contract could be placed on the blockchain as a trait for either, or both, of their Fennel identities.

Fennel has capabilities which can provide further value to this scenario. Say there was a legal identity involved in the creation of the business. The legal identity could place the business contract as a trait to their legal identity, then the two business identities could create a trust statement between each other and reference the on-chain business contract as part of their statement of trust. Any third party will have access to the identities, statements of trust, and business contract involved in the creation of the business. The formation and ongoing activity of the business relationship can be tracked on-chain to whatever extent each party deems necessary or valuable. Storing this information on-chain is extremely valuable for the purpose of decentralizing accountability, and opens to new possibilities for the interactions and trust formed between identities.

To get up and running with the current pre-release version of Fennel Protocol, visit https://github.com/fennelLabs/Fennel-Protocol. More guidance on getting started and using the protocol can be found at our wiki, which is under development in parallel with the protocol: https://github.com/fennelLabs/Fennel-Protocol/wiki.